# ICSI-409-CNF-CYK

This repository contains an implementation of the CYK (Cocke-Younger-Kasami) Algorithm for ICSI 409 Fall 2024.

Group 1 consists of: 

* Mendel M. - Part 1: Grammars
* Wyatt B. - Part 2: Implementation
* Thomas D. - Part 2 : Implementation
* Kevin M. - Part 2: Implementation
* Ryan M. - Part 3: Documentation
* Sharie R. - Part 3: Documentation

## Task Descriptions
1. Grammars

* 1 member will produce the grammars from the given language and convert it to the CNF format on paper: Members not comfortable with coding can attempt this section of the homework. 40%. – This Question is 40%, Question 2 is 40% Question 3 is 20%

2. Implementation 

* 2-3 members will work on the implementation and preliminary testing. 60%. --This question is 60%, Question 1 is 20% Question 3 is 20%.

3. Documentation

* 2-3 members will work on the testing and documentation (your report and readme file) – (This must still be done and if a member is doesn’t participate, you still provide documentation, but they get no grade for the HW). 50%. - This question is 50%, Question 2 is 30% and Question 1 is 20%

## Running the Program

### Dependencies

* [Java version 21+](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/downloads/)
* [Optional] [Maven 3.8.x](https://maven.apache.org/guides/getting-started/maven-in-five-minutes.html)

Make sure to clone the repository using your preferred method.

### Using a Terminal

1. Change to java Directory

    ```bash
    cd cyk/src/main/java
    ```

2. Compile 

    ```bash
    javac -d out group1/CYKAlgorithm.java group1/Grammar.java
    ```

3. Execute

    ```bash
    java -cp out group1.CYKAlgorithm
    ```

3. Follow Commandline Prompts

    Follow the prompts in the terminal to enter a grammar. Next, enter a string to see if it is in the language generated by the grammar. 

### Using Maven in a Terminal

1. Change to cyk Directory

    ```bash
    cd cyk
    ```

2. Build and Execute

    ```bash
    mvn exec:java
    ```

3. Follow Commandline Prompts

    Follow the prompts in the terminal to enter a grammar. Next, enter a string to see if it is in the language generated by the grammar. 

## Running Unit Tests with Maven

1. Change to cyk Directory

    ```bash
    cd cyk
    ```

2. Build and Execute

    ```bash
    mvn test
    ```

## Usage Notes

* E represents epsilon, the empty string. 
* Nonterminals may be more than one character, such as S0. In order to differentiate between nonterminals, use spaces. 
* Example grammar:

```
S0 -> X( Z | S S | E
S -> X( Z | S S
Z -> S X) | )
X( -> (
X) -> )
```
